When we're discussing industrial type robots,
it's important to describe the orientation
of the end effector, the gripper - the piece
of the robot that does the work by picking
objects up and putting them down. The common
convention in this type of robotics is what's
called the 2-axis representation. We start
off by defining a vector which is called the
approach vector and that's the vector that's
parallel to the fingers of the robot. We define
another vector which we call the orientation
vector and that's the vector that joins the
tips of two fingers. So that says something
about the twist of the robot fingers around
the approach vector. And for a lot of robotic
manipulation tasks, just knowing the approach
vector and the orientation vector is sufficient
to be able to describe the orientation of the gripper.
In order to create a right-handed coordinate
frame we introduce a third vector just called
the normal vector. Now we can express the
orientation of the gripper as an orthonormal
rotation matrix. We do that by stacking up
as columns the N vector, the O vector and
the A vector. We're can expand this out as
a 3 x 3 matrix and each column are the elements
of the N, O and A vectors. All of these columns
must be orthogonal. So if we know the A and
the O vector, we can compute the N vector
as the cross product of the O and the A vector.
Here's a quick recap on the rules that relate
the columns of an orthogonal matrix. A little
trick that I use to aid my memory is to consider
that N, O and A are written on a circular
strip of paper. We start with the symbol that
we want to know, and is equal to the cross
product of the next two around the circle.
Here I have a very simple robot and we have
our world coordinate frame here, which is
our reference for both position and for orientation.
And this robot is going to pick up this battery.
In order to do that, we need to describe both
the position and the orientation of the gripper.
It might be that we want to pick up the battery
with a gripper orientation like this or we
might want to pick up the battery with a gripper
orientation like this. Either way we need
to be able to describe the orientation of
the gripper. So we do what we've done before,
with other objects. We attach a coordinate
frame to the gripper of the robot. We orient
it so that the z-axis is pointing outwards.
We refer to this as the approach vector. It's
generally the direction in which the gripper
approaches the object. We have another vector
which we call the orientation vector and is
parallel to the y-axis of the gripper's coordinate
frame and that is the orientation of the gripper.
Do we want the gripper's fingers like this
or like this. And the third vector, the x-axis
we refer to as the normal vector.